# Semaphore

Semaphore is used to control the maximum number of concurrent accesses to a particular resources or critical section. Unlike mutex, semaphore's goal is to coordinate among multiple threads rather than simply protecting the critical section. One key difference between a binary semaphore and a mutex is that semaphore could be released (`V`) by some thread that doesn't acquire (`P`) it at the very beginning.

A typical example showing the difference between a binary semaphore and a mutex is that binary semaphore can be used to implement the producer-consumer model, so consumer always tries to acquire the token, and producer only release the token once the data is produced.

In Golang, usually the coordination between goroutines are achieved using channel, however, semaphore is also provided from the official extension `golang.org/x/sync/semaphore`.

It defines a `Weighted` struct as follow:
```go
type Weighted struct {
	size    int64
	cur     int64
	mu      sync.Mutex
	waiters list.List
}
```
The `size` and `cur` are used to denote the capacity and state of the semaphore; and the mutex is used whenever the state needs to be changed. `waiters` is a list of goroutines that's parked and waiting to be notified when the resources are ready.

When `Acquire` is called, before the context timed out, it will be pushed into the waiter list and waiting for the `ready` channel to be closed. When `Release` is called, the `cur` will be decremented, and the first waiter in the list that gets the sufficient tokens will be notified, the `ready` channel will be closed so the gorotuine will no longer be blocked.

There is also another `TryAcquire` method that does the same thing as `Acquire` except that it won't block the gorotuine if acquisition fails, it simple return `false` in this case.
