**Logical Address** is generated by CPU while a program is running. The logical address is virtual address as it does not exist physically, therefore, it is also known as Virtual Address. This address is used as a reference to access the physical memory location by CPU. The term Logical Address Space is used for the set of all logical addresses generated by a program’s perspective. 
The hardware device called Memory-Management Unit is used for mapping logical address to its corresponding physical address. 

**Physical Address** identifies a physical location of required data in a memory. The user never directly deals with the physical address but can access by its corresponding logical address. The user program generates the logical address and thinks that the program is running in this logical address but the program needs physical memory for its execution, therefore, the logical address must be mapped to the physical address by MMU before they are used. The term Physical Address Space is used for all physical addresses corresponding to the logical addresses in a Logical address space. 

***

Virtual memory is a memory management technique that is implemented by using both hardware and software. It makes the application think it has a contiguous and available storage space or address space. However, in fact, virtual memory usually is divided into several physical memoryfragments, and some of them are stored on the external disk storage which can be used to exchange data when needed. Currently, most operating systems use virtual memory, like the Windows family's “virtual memory”, or the Linux “swap space”.