# Lock Fairness in Go

Optimistic/Pessimistic locking was already answered in the [0629 homework](https://github.com/refinedcoding/CruelFundamental/blob/main/homework/202106/0629/%F0%9F%90%94%F0%9F%92%A3.md)

Naive mutex implementation was already answered in the [0721 homework](https://github.com/refinedcoding/CruelFundamental/blob/main/homework/202107/0721/%F0%9F%90%94%F0%9F%92%A3.md)

In Go 1.12, lock fairness was [introduced](https://github.com/golang/go/commit/0556e26273f704db73df9e7c4c3d2e8434dec7be).

The problem it tries to solve is that in the naive implementation, the goroutine that unlocks a mutex will wake up a sleeping goroutine that was blocked for lock acquisition. However, between the lock is released and the goroutine is indeed scheduled to compete for the lock, the other active goroutines can take the mutex control. That is to say, the chance that the woken goroutine will fail to get the lock is higher.

This may potentially result in a starvation scenario, where some goroutine will not be able to acquire the lock in a [very long period of time](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/13086).

To resolve the issue, a new starvation mode is introduced to the mutex. Usually the mutex is in the normal mode, but if a waiting goroutine has been waiting for more than 1ms, the mutex will switch to starvation mode.

```go
starvationThresholdNs = 1e6
// ...
starving = starving || runtime_nanotime()-waitStartTime > starvationThresholdNs
```

In starvation mode's unlocking, instead of unsetting the locked bit, it directly handoff the ownership of the mutex to the goroutine that is woken up. When the goroutine is processing the logic after `runtime_SemacquireMutex`, it checks the `mutexStarving` bit and realize it's in starvation mode, it keeps the locked state and update the waiter count. 

Notice that the mutex will be switched back to normal mode if the current goroutine is the last one in the waiter list or it actually doesn't wait for more than 1ms and the starvation mode was set by the last goroutine. It's important to do so because normal mode yields better performance because if the handoff doesn't happen, the lock can be acquired by others so CPU will be busy processing the task instead of waiting for the starved goroutine to be woken and resume the work.
