# 进程调度算法

**ref**: 

[https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/cpu-sched.pdf]()

[https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/cpu-sched-mlfq.pdf]()

### Scheduling Metrics

**Turnaround Time**
$$
T_{turnaround}=T_{completion}-T_{arrival}
$$
**Response Time**
$$
T_{response}=T_{firstrun}-T_{arrival}
$$




#### First In, First Out (FIFO)

#### Shortest Job First (SJF)

It runs the shortest job first, then the next shortest, and so on.

#### Preemptive Shortest Job First (PSJF)

**non-preemptive scheduler** run each job to completion before considering whether to run a new job.

**preemptive scheduler** the scheduler can perform a context switch, stopping one running process temporarily and resuming (or starting) another.

Any time a new job enters the system, the STCF scheduler determines which of the remaining jobs (including the new job) has the least time left, and schedules that one. 

#### Round Robin

Instead of running jobs to completion, RR runs a job for a time slice (sometimes called a scheduling quantum) and then switches to the next job in the run queue. It repeatedly does so until the jobs are finished.

#### Multi-Level Feedback Queue

It has *multiple levels* of queues, and uses *feedback* to determine the priority of a given job. Pay attention to how jobs bahave over time and treat them accordingly

- **Rule 1:** If Priority(A) > Priority(B), A runs (B doesn't)
- **Rule 2:** If Priority(A) = Priority(B), A and B run in round-robin fashion using the time slice of the given queue
- **Rule 3**: When a job enters the system, it's placed at the highest priority (the topmost queue).
- **Rule 4**: Once a job uses up its time allotment at a given level (regardless of how many times it has given up the CPU), its priority is reduced (i.e., it moves down one queue)
- **Rule 5**: After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system to the topmost level.