# Golang Primitive Types

## Boolean type

There is only one boolean type `bool` and the two values are `true` and `false`, they are defined as

```go
const (
	true  = 0 == 0 // Untyped bool.
	false = 0 != 0 // Untyped bool.
)
```

## Numeric type

`uint8`, `uint16`, `uint32`, `uint64`, `int8`, `int16`, `int32`, `int64` are types for unsigned/signed integer with the number of bits as described in the type name.

`float32`, `float64` are types for floating point with single/double precision following the specification in IEEE-754.

`complex64`, `complex128` are types for complex number with the real and imaginary parts of `float32`/`float64` (thus the doubled size). These types can be used with the functions defined in the `math/cmplx` package.

`byte` and `rune` are alias for `uint8` and `uint32` so the size is 1 and 4 bytes. `byte` is used to represent the ASCII characters and `rune` is used to represent the UTF-8 code point.

`int`, `uint` and `uintprt` are platform dependent types, if the machine architecture is 32-bit, then they are 4 bytes. (Codeforces use 32-bit machine to compile and run the Go code, so using `int` sometimes get unexpected error).

## String type

`string` is a non-nil representation of a sequence of 8-bit bytes. Looping through the UTF-8 string byte by byte may not give you what you want, usually we use a `rune` type to receive each of the code point generated from the `range` operation.

## Error type

`error` is a interface type that is also provided from the `builtin` package, and it defines a function call `Error` that produce a `string` value (usually for error message)

```go
type error interface {
	Error() string
}
```

The size of an value of interface type is twice the size of `int`. (Why?)
