##### Please describe what happens when you click on a URL in your browser.

##### Browser Cache

Depending on the cache control policies for the previous request, there might be cache stored in the browser for the particular path. If the pre-stored cache is hit, browser returns 304 immediately without making any outbound request. Special forms of "cache" may terminate the request earlier as well, for example, when the request violates some CORS policy based on the access control headers set from the preflight request.

##### DNS Resolution

In order to convert the human readable domain name into IP address, DNS lookup is performed. If the DNS record is not found from the cache of the software (browser), OS, or hardware (router), a UDP request will be sent to the configured DNS resolver, which will query the root DNS server and move down to the corresponding authoritative DNS server and obtain the IP record.

##### TCP and TLS Handshake

TCP connection is then established through three way handshake followed by TLS handshake for key exchange, and the encrypted communication begins between the client and server. 

##### Server Processing

Browser will compose the HTTP request with various headers and the entire message payload will be parsed from the HTTP server. After the processing, response data will be generated and transferred back through the same TCP connection. After the data transmission, depending on the configuration (HTTP keepalive/streaming), the connection may or may not be closed by either client or server.

##### Client Rendering

Some user agent may react differently to different HTTP status code from the response, like performing redirection for 3xx code. In a common case, browser loads the response payload and render the page according to the content type.
