# epoll

- NIC is the hardware interface that receives the data through network and transmits it into the memory.
- NIC communicates with CPU using interrupts, which has a higher priority than the tasks being executed by CPU, this is a notification of the event that some new data are coming.
- When a process creates a socket and listen to it, the current process will be moved to the waiting queue and thus blocked.
- After the process receives the data in the buffer, the blocked process will be waken up and put into the running queue for the processing logic.
- To allow one process to receive data from different socket, `select` is introduced. It add the process in the waiting queue for each of the socket structure and stays blocked until the data arrives at any one of the sockets.
- `select` is not efficient since the entire socket lists need to be pass from user space to kernel space, also the process need to iterate through the socket list to fetch data from the one that has data ready.
- Similarly, `epoll` also loads the entire socket lists, but it only does this once before waiting for data to come, and in the subsequent operation, it keeps handling the socket from the same list.
- `epoll` also implement a ready list, when the socket receives the data, it adds the information of the sockets that are available for data reading to the process, this avoids the second iteration.
-  When the process is waken, it fetches the socket information from the ready list and copy the data into application logic.
- Since we need to maintain the socket references in the ready (doubly-linked) list, we also need to maintain the socket list that are under listening, the information will be maintain through a RB tree for faster insertion, deletion and lookup.
- Level trigger (LT) will trigger return the ready signal whenever the buffer is full, while edge trigger (ET) will only be triggered when the state has changed (from ready to non-ready or vice versa). ET has less frequent triggers so it's more efficient, LT ensures that the data won't loss since it keeps triggering the notification when there are some data.
