here are three level of abstraction in DBMS which are physical level, logical level and view level. This is called three schema architecture. Schema means structure.

Physical level is the lowest level and internal level in the DBMS which describes how the data is actually stored and it describes data structures in detail and access methods used by database . Database developer will decide how the data is to be stored in the database. It is really complex to understand. If we want to have indices to be created above the data that also will be decided by the database application programmer. The entire database is described over here in detail in this level.

Logical level is the intermediate level, next in higher level and also known as conceptual level which describes what data is stored and reveals the relationships that exists among the stored data. It tried to describe the entire data. It means what tables to be created and what are the links are between these tables are mentioned in this level. This is less complicated than the physical level. Little bit of complexity over here as well. But, it is not that much like at the physical level. This level is used by database administrators or developer. In short, the logical level contains fields and attributes along with the datatypes and the relationships among the attributes which can be logically implemented.

When coming to the third level that is the view level and it is the highest level. This is the external level. There are different level of views in view level and each view tries to describe only a part of a entire data. It simplifies the interaction with the user since it provides the different views of the same database. It also provides multiple views for the same database. This level can be used by the all levels’ users of the database. End-user does not have knowledge of implementation details of Database management system. If user does not know anything about complexity of database application then that user is called as a naive user. This level is the least complex in the all of these levels. This level is really easy to understand.

