# B-Tree vs. B+ Tree

## Balanced Search Tree

Based on the idea of divide and conquer, search tree is an effective data structure that partitions the data into different sections and allows efficient search on logarithmic time. If the search tree is not maintained properly, it may degenerates to a linear data structure, so additional constraints are added to the search tree to keep it balanced (AVL tree, red black tree, scapegoat tree, 2-3 tree...)

## B-Tree

B-tree is a special form of balanced search tree, the key characteristic of this data structure is that it's an n-ary tree, so unlike those binary search tree, the data are partitioned into more parts at the same levels. Splitting and merging may happens during insertion and deletion to maintain the number of elements in each node, and rotation may be performed to keep the tree balanced.

## B+ Tree

The difference between B+ tree and B-tree is that in B+ tree, the reference to the data is only stored in the leaves level, which reduces the size of extra information stored in the internal node and ensures the access to each of the element is more consistent and stable since it has to reach the bottom of the tree. Additional pointers are added in the leaves level to link all the nodes, so it's good for range queries that need to access a continuous section of the elements.

## Usage of B-Tree and B+ Tree

Due to the high fan-outs of the n-ary tree, the number of access to the data structure is minimized compared with a classic binary search tree. This characteristics is useful when the data access is heavier like when the data structure is stored in the disk that has a slower I/O. This data structure is commonly seen in the implementation of indexing of a database or filesystem.


# Leftmost Index Prefixes

In MySQL, when creating a composite index, it effectively creates multiple composite index. For example, if we index on `(A, B, C, D)` then when we are searching for `(A, B)` it will also use the index because it follows the order to organized the sorted data. MySQL has the optimization that correct the order of search criteria, as long as part of the consecuritve "prefix" of the composite keys are covered, it will try to exploit the indexed data. Notice that the prefix must be consecurtive, if we are searching for `(A, B, D)` then only `(A, B)` from the composite index will be used.
